=Requirements Document=

 

*Introduction:*

Our game, MathCraft, is intended to help students between grades 1-3 with math education in a fun and enjoyable way. We are aiming to make a more interactive experience with visually stimulating real life objects (i.e. marbles, animals, etc) so that the students can connect the information he/she has learned with the world around them. The game content will follow the British Columbia grades 1-3 school curriculums so teachers will be able to use it as a tool to aid them with educating. There will be 4 “mini-games” which will offer different ways to develop basic math skills. The level of difficulty of the games will increase as the student’s tracked progression advances. Students will also be able to view their statistics so they can track their own progress. Our game is designed for use on the Apple iPhone and iPod Touch.


*Intended Audience:*

Grade 1-3 Students

These will be the primary users of our game. We expect them to have basic experience with video games, preferably of educational video games and experience with using G.U.I. (Graphical User Interface) components like menus and buttons. The students should have typical 1st  to 3rd grade knowledge of math (i.e. addition, subtraction, multiplication, etc) depending on their current grade. The goals of each user should be to improve their math skills to aid in their education and to have fun while doing it.

 

Parents and Teachers

These will be the primary educators for our students. Our game will aim to aid them in their educating ability. The parents and teachers should have basic experience with educational software and G.U.I .components like menus and buttons. They should have full knowledge of all elementary school levels of math. The goals of our educators should be to keep the students engaged in learning, track each student’s progress and improve each student’s mathematical ability.

 

*Features:*

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/AccountManagement Account Management]<br>

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/MenuSystem Menu System]<br>

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/ScoreTracking Score Tracking System and Statistics]<br>

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/MiniGames Mini-games]<br>

_Clock Game_

Purpose: to help students to quickly read and calculate the time for clocks

·       Type 1. Each question will show an analog clock and player has to read and answer the according time.

·       Type 2. Each question will show an analog clock and a question (for example: “predict the time after 30 minutes”) and the player will have to drag the hands of the clock into the correct position.

_Money Counting Game_

Purpose: to help students learn how to count money for real world situations

·       Type 1. Each question will show a set of cash and coins and player has to answer the exact amount.

·       Type 2. Each question will show two sets of cash and coins and the question will either ask to add or subtract the two sets.

_Mirror Game_

Purpose: to help students to develop pattern recognition ability

·      Type 1.  Each question will depict a pattern on left side of screen and player will be asked to make the pattern of mirror reflection.

·       Type 2. Each question will show a series of elements displayed in an incomplete pattern and the player will be asked to complete the rest of the pattern.

_Equation Game_

Purpose: to help students enhance basic arithmetic skills

·       Type 1. Each question will show basic math questions in addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. For example, 4+5=? or 6*2=?

·       Type 2. Each question will have blank to fill up with arithmetic signs such as +, -, * or /. For example, 4 _ 5=9 or 6 _ 3 = 2

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/RandomGame Random Game Chooser Component
]<br>

The users will have the option to select a random game once they have accessed the play game menu. A mini-game will be chosen at random and user data will still be used for the progress report.

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/DifficultySelect Difficulty Selection System]<br>

Once a user has selected a game, they will have the option of setting the difficulty. A higher difficulty will produce more difficult questions and reduce the amount of time allowed to answer them. We will also suggest a "recommended difficulty" that will automatically be determined based on the users data that stored. The three difficulties will be easy, medium and hard.

[http://code.google.com/p/bororolomon/wiki/LeaderBoard Online Leader Board]<br>Online Leader Board

The users will be able to access an online leader board. The leader board will be on a separate website that will open for the user and will list the top 100 users based on their top scores for each mini-game. This will only work if there is an internet connection available.

*Non-functional requirements:*

Speed

Loading time will be kept as short as possible and shouldn’t be very significant. Sounds, images and user profiles will be loaded at start. All in-game operations should be instant. Users will have designated amounts of time in games to answer questions but the game menu will have unlimited time for the user to make their selection.

Size

Its size should be a small number of MB, preferably under 10. This only includes images sounds and user profiles. Downloading the game should not take very long.

Ease of use

A simple G.U.I. and help sections should make it very easy to learn. Training time will consist of reading the game instructions quickly before starting each game. Students may need the aid of a teacher/parent for creating their user profile. The administrator menu should be simple and straight forward for someone with basic knowledge of G.U.I.’s and should require minimal training time.

Reliability

There will be a low probability of application failure because we will have done thorough testing on it before release. Any errors that do occur we will try to have error messages displayed so that users can avoid/troubleshoot them. Our game will be able to run without internet access but some features that require an online connection will be unavailable. The only way to access our game is with an iPhone or iPod Touch on which our game has already been downloaded on or if an internet connection is available it can be downloaded for free from iTunes.

Robustness

The time to restart after failure should be less than 30 seconds. In the event of a crash the user’s data will from be the last completed game, they will lose any progress in the current game being played. The user will only need to restart the application to resume playing. There should be a very low probability of events causing failure and of data corruption.

Portability

Can only be used on an Apple iPhone or iPod Touch for now and any future devices released by Apple that will support their applications.

 

*Tutorials:*

Log-in Menu

 

 

*Glossary:*

GUI - Stands for "Graphical User Interface" and is the component of the game that the user "sees" while playing.

Profile - Each user that registers will have his individual data/statistics stored and can look at them whenever they want.

Leader Board - A list of all the top ranked users based on their individual scores in each game. There will be a leader board for every mini-game.

iPhone - A cellphone released by apple that has the ability to download applications and run them on a touch screen and connect via wifi/3g to the internet.

iPod Touch - An ipod released by apple that has the ability to download applications and run them on a touch screen and connect via wifi to the internet. 

MB - Stands for "Megabyte" and is a multiple of the unit byte which is used for digital information storage or transmission.

Crash -  A condition where a program stops performing its expected function and also stops responding to other parts of the system. 

Data Corruption - Refers to errors in computer data that occur during transmission, retrieval, or processing, introducing unintended changes to the original data. 