Table of Contents

1	Introduction									3

2	Intended Audience								3

3	Features									3
3.1	Account Management						3
3.2	Menu System								4
3.3	Score Tracking Systems and Statistics				4
3.4 Mini-games								4
3.5 Random Game Chooser Component					5
3.6 Difficulty Selection System						5
3.7 Online Leader Board							5

4	Non-Functional Requirement 						5

5	Tutorials									6
5.1	Log in									6
5.2	Menu									7
5.3	Equation Game							9
5.4	View Progress								10
5.5	Online Leader board							10
5.6	Option									11

6	Glossary									11

7	Revision History							 	12
 
Requirements Document
  
Introduction: 

Our game, MathCraft, is intended to help students between grades 1-3 with math education in a fun and enjoyable way. We are aiming to make a more interactive experience with visually stimulating real life objects (i.e. marbles, animals, etc) so that the students can connect the information he/she has learned with the world around them. The game content will follow the British Columbia grades 1-3 school curriculum so teachers will be able to use it as a tool to aid them with educating. There will be 4 “mini-games” which will offer different ways to develop basic math skills. There will be a game for basic math equations, a game for basic money calculation, a game for pattern recognition and a game for time/clock understanding. The level of difficulty of the games will increase as the student’s tracked progression advances. Students will also be able to view their statistics so they can track their own progress. Our game is designed for use on the Apple iPhone and iPod Touch. 

Intended Audience: 

Grade 1-3 Students 
These will be the primary users of our game. We expect them to have basic experience with video games, preferably of educational video games and experience with using G.U.I. (Graphical User Interface) components like menus and buttons. The students should have typical 1st to 3rd grade knowledge of math (i.e. addition, subtraction, multiplication, etc) depending on their current grade. The goals of each user should be to improve their math skills to aid in their education and to have fun while doing it. 
  
Parents and Teachers 
These will be the primary educators for our students. Our game will aim to aid them in their educating ability. The parents and teachers should have basic experience with educational software and G.U.I . components like menus and buttons. They should have full knowledge of all elementary school levels of math. The goals of our educators should be to keep the students engaged in learning, track each student’s progress and improve each student’s mathematical ability. 
  
Features: 

Account Management 
A new player can create an account before they can start playing any of the games. The first screen that will be displayed is the log-in menu. A user creates an account by registering a user name and password. Once an account is created, it will have the option to be automatically saved by selecting "remember me" so the player does not have to re-enter his account every time. Only one account at a time can be saved automatically. When other players want to log-in, he/she will be required to enter his/her account. The user will also have the option to skip the log-in and just play the games but no user data will be saved. When a user is logged in their statistics will be recorded, if they are not, their statistics won't be.

Menu System 
Once a user has logged in or skipped the log-in menu they will be taken to the main menu screen. On the main menu the user can select from the following options: play games, view progress, options, online leader board. The menu will consist of a simple G.U.I. containing buttons and a background. Each selection on the menu can be accessed by the users touch. The user can exit by pressing the button outside of the touch screen. Each selection's screen will have the option to go back to the menu.

Score Tracking System and Statistics 
This can be found in the view progress section. For every game that is finished, each player’s game results will be saved for future reference. A player will be able to check his progress and his past scores along with encouraging advice. A graph will be drawn to show the rate of the player’s progress and the player will see his grade according to his scores. Each game will have its own section and will include statistics like: best score, average score, number of games played, etc. Score will be based on user accuracy and speed during game play, faster and more accurate will result in a higher score.

Mini-games
Users will be able to play mini-games designed to improve mathematical ability. Each game will have 2 different rounds and will have specified amounts of time for the user to answer the questions.

Clock Game 
Purpose: to help students to quickly read and calculate the time for clocks 
·       Type 1. Each question will show an analog or digital clock and players will either have to read and answer the current time or answer what the time will be after a specified about of time (e.g. after 45 minutes). 
·       Type 2. Each question will show an analog clock and a statement saying, for example: “predict the time after 30 minutes,” and the player will have to drag the hands of the clock into the correct position. 

Money Counting Game 
Purpose: to help students learn how to count money for real world situations
·       Type 1. Each question will show a set of cash and coins and player has to answer the exact amount. 
·       Type 2. Each question will show two set of cash and coins and the question will either ask to add or subtract the two sets. 

Mirror Game 
Purpose: to help students to develop pattern recognition ability 
·      Type 1.  Each question will depict a pattern on left side of screen and player will be asked to make the pattern of mirror reflection. 
·      Type 2. Each question will show a series of elements displayed in an incomplete pattern and the player will be asked to complete the rest of the pattern.
 
Equation Game 
Purpose: to help students enhance basic arithmetic skills 
·       Type 1. Each question will show basic math questions in addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. For example, 4+5=? or 6*2=? 
·       Type 2. Each question will have blank to fill up with arithmetic signs such as +, -, * or /. For example, 4 _ 5=9 or 6 _ 3 = 2 

Random Game Chooser Component
The users will have the option to select a random game once they have accessed the play game menu. A mini-game will be chosen at random and user data will still be used for the progress report. Once the game has been chosen the difficulty menu will come up before the game is started. There will be the option to choose just one random game, or to complete all 4 games in a row in a random order.

Difficulty Selection System
Once a user has selected a game, they will have the option of setting the difficulty. A higher difficulty will produce more difficult questions and reduce the amount of time allowed to answer them. We will also suggest a "recommended difficulty" that will automatically be determined based on the users data that stored. The three difficulties will be easy, medium and hard and will be based on a specific grade level. For example, if a user chooses a grade 1 level, they will then be asked to choose between easy medium and hard. Different grade levels deal with different math curriculum, while different difficulties will shorten the time allowed and increase the difficulty of the questions. 

Online Leader Board
The users will be able to access an online leader board. The leader board will be on a separate website that will open for the user and will list the top 100 users based on their top scores for each mini-game. There will be a main page which will contain a leader board of overall scores based on all 4 games together, and there will also contain links to view each individual game's leader boards. This will only work if there is an internet connection available.
Non-functional requirements: 

Speed 
Loading time will be kept as short as possible and shouldn’t be very significant. Sounds, images and user profiles will be loaded at start. All in-game operations should be instant. Users will have designated amounts of time in games to answer questions but the game menu will have unlimited time for the user to make their selection.

Size 
Its size should be a small number of MB, preferably under 20. This only includes images sounds and user profiles. Downloading the game should not take very long. 

 
Ease of use 
A simple G.U.I. and help sections should make it very easy to learn. Training time will consist of reading the game instructions quickly before starting each game. Students may need the aid of a teacher/parent for creating their user profile. The administrator menu should be simple and straightforward for someone with basic knowledge of G.U.I.’s and should require minimal training time. 

Reliability 
There will be a low probability of application failure because we will have done thorough testing on it before release. Any errors that do occur we will try to have error messages displayed so that users can avoid/troubleshoot them. Our game will be able to run without Internet access but some features that require an online connection will be unavailable. The only way to access our game is with an iPhone or iPod Touch on which our game has already been downloaded on or if an Internet connection is available it can be downloaded for free from iTunes. 

Robustness 
The time to restart after failure should be less than 30 seconds. In the event of a crash the user’s data will from be the last completed game, they will lose any progress in the current game being played. The user will only need to restart the application to resume playing. There should be a very low probability of events causing failure and of data corruption. 

Portability 
Can only be used on an Apple iPhone or iPod Touch for now and any future devices released by Apple that will support their applications. 
  
Tutorials:
1. Log in As the application is launched, a player will be directed to the login screen.
 


• If the player already has an account with us,
o Enter the account name and the password, then press GO.
• If the player is does not have an account,
o Press REGISTER button and it will direct to a registration page.
o For registration, it will require his/her first and last name, age and email address.
o Player can choose to fill out other optional information.
o Pressing CONFIRM button will end the registration process and redirect the player to the application. 
o Now, the player can login with the new account.
• If the player does not want to login nor register,
o Player can simply click on the SKIP button located at the top right corner.

2. Menu
As soon as player passes through the login screen, game menu will show.

 

• To enjoy MathCraft games, press “Play Game” button.
o Refer section 3 for further tutorial
• To see how the player was progressed in the past games, press “View Progress” button. 
o Refer section 4 for further tutorial
• To see the online ranking board of every registered players, press “View Leader Board” button.
o Refer section 5 for further tutorial
• To modify some game settings, press “Option” button.
o Refer section 6 for further tutorial
• Pressing “Bororolomon” logo at the bottom right will direct to the Bororolomon homepage. (http://code.google.com)
• To login to another account, the player has to exit the application and re-run the application. This procedure is for security issue.

3. Play Game: Game Selection Menu
When the player presses the “Play Game” button from the main menu, the user will immediately see a screen where he/she can choose among four games.

 

• The four games are “Equation Game”, “Money Counting Game”, “Clock Game” and “Mirror Game”.
• To go back to the main menu, press “BACK” button in the center of the screen.
• When player selects a game, a short (1screen long) tutorial will show before the player gets to the game.

 
3 Equation Game
As an example, when player selects “Equation Game” from Game Selection Menu, a short tutorial will be given, and as user confirms the tutorial page, the game will start. This is a screen shot of the game.

 

• Top left corner shows how many questions the player correctly answered.
• Top center indicates how many questions the player has gone through and how many questions are left.
• Top left corner shows the how much time left to try the rest of the questions.
• Once game is started, players can pause and go back to menu. 
 
4. View Progress
This is where a player can see their historical scores and progress. The application keeps all the scores in every game as long as the player is logged in.

 

• The graph illustrates whether a player is progressing or losing and in what rate.
• Below the graph, players account name appears. Below the account name, the player’s grade is shown, which is calculated by MathCraft’s grading system (based on a combination of speed and accuracy). In this case, the account name is “PLAYER1” and he is a grade 1 level.
• On the right hand side, it shows number of games played, the highest score and the average score for each game is displayed.
• BACK button will direct player to the main menu.

5. Online Leader Board
Pressing this button will open an online ranking board. The online ranking board shows the sorted list of all registered players in declining order up to rank 100 for each game and for overall score.

 
6. Option
Player can turn on or off the volume or sound effects.

 

• Sliding or pressing the button will switch on/off.
• The screen shot is currently showing that both sound effects and music are on.
• BACK button will direct player to the main menu. 
   
Glossary: 

GUI - Stands for "Graphical User Interface" and is the component of the game that the user "sees" while playing. 
Profile - Each user that registers will have his individual data/statistics stored and can look at them whenever they want. 
Leader Board - A list of all top ranked users based on their individual scores in each game. There will be a leader board for every mini-game. 
iPhone - A cell phone released by apple that has the ability to download applications and run them on a touch screen and connect via wifi/3g to the internet. 
iPod Touch - An ipod released by apple that has the ability to download applications and run them on a touch screen and connect via wifi to the internet.  
MB - Stands for "Megabyte" and is a multiple of the unit byte which is used for digital information storage or transmission. 
Crash - A condition where a program stops performing its expected function and also stops responding to other parts of the system.  
Data Corruption - Refers to errors in computer data that occur during transmission, retrieval, or processing, introducing unintended changes to the original data. 
  
Revision History:
Version 1.0

February 5, 2009
-	Design Document first created
February 8, 2009 
-	Google Code chosen to be coding repository

February 10, 2009
-	Grammar and paragraphs revised.
-	Requirements Document version 1 handed in.

Version 1.1

March 11, 2009
-	Table of Contents added to document
-	Revision history added to document
-	Grammar and sentences is revised for more professional design
-	Added youtube video link in tutorials